# SECTION - A (Objective Type Questions)

Question Nos. 1 to 100 have four options, out of which only one is correct. You have to mark your selected option on the OMR Sheet. Out of 100 questions, you have to attempt only 50 questions.

1. You must write to the Principal.
   (Choose the correct passive voice)
   (a) You will write to the Principal.
   (b) The Principal must be written to.
   (c) Write to the Principal.
   (d) Written to the Principal should be
2. The Antonym of ‘Vague’ is :
   (a) Hard
   (b) Clear
   (c) Polite
   (d) Refuse
3. They said, “How silly of him!”
   (Choose the correct indirect narration)
   (a) They said that it is silly of him.
   (b) Silly of him is what they said.
   (c) They exclaimed that it was very silly of him.
   (d) They were angry that it was silly of him.
4. I ..... him two years ago.
   (Choose the correct form of tense)
   (a) saw
   (b) see
   (c) seeing
   (d) have seen
5. Some actresses are ..... dancers.
   (Choose the correct option)
   (a) brilliant
   (b) courteous
   (c) dangerous
   (d) rapid
6. ..... they live near you ?
   (Choose the correct option)
   (a) Does
   (b) Do
   (c) Have
   (d) Are
7. Choose the correct sentence ;
   (a) We saw a wonderful show next day.
   (b) We show a wonderful saw yesterday.
   (c) We show a wonderful saw today.
   (d) We saw a wonderful show yesterday.
8. The book, in parts, ..... boring.
   (Choose the correct option)
   (a) is
   (b) are
   (c) were
   (d) had
9. You have made all preparations ..... the marriage.
   (Choose the correct preposition)
   (a) to
   (b) for
   (c) of
   (d) on
10. Where did ..... buy that dress ?
    (Choose the correct option)
    (a) her
    (b) him
    (c) his
    (d) she
11. I would appreciate ..... from you.
    (Choose the correct option)
    (a) to hear
    (b) heard
    (c) hear
    (d) hearing
12. The boss ordered to follow him.
    (Choose the correct direct narration)
    (a) The boss said, “Follow me.”
    (b) The boss says, “Will follow me.”
    (c) The boss will say, “Following me.”
    (d) The boss has said, “Following me.”
13. Choose the correctly spelt word.
    (a) Transfered
    (b) Trunsfered
    (c) Transferred
    (d) Trensfired
14. Try ..... with what you have.
    (Choose the correct phrase)
    (a) to make do
    (b) produce it
    (c) create it
    (d) to do it
15. I often suffer from ..... backache.
    (Choose the correct option)
    (a) a
    (b) an
    (c) the
    (d) no article
16. You bought a car, ..... ?
    (Choose the correct option)
    (a) did not you
    (b) haven’t you
    (c) weren’t you
    (d) don’t you
17. I eat rice ..... my hand.
    (Choose the correct preposition)
    (a) in
    (b) at
    (c) with
    (d) for
18. I want a ..... for higher studies.
    (Choose the correct option)
    (a) lone
    (b) loan
    (c) loen
    (d) lonely
19. Choose the correct sentence :
    (a) He was standing right for his father.
    (b) He was standing right of his father.
    (c) He was standing in front of his father.
    (d) He was standing right from his father.
20. Choose the correct antonym of ‘sterile’.
    (a) Short
    (b) Common
    (c) Wild
    (d) Fertile
21. Did she see ..... ?
    (Choose the correct option)
    (a) us
    (b) they
    (c) their
    (d) his
22. I ..... black hair and brown eyes.
    (a) has
    (b) have
    (c) is
    (d) was
23. Choose the odd one out :
    (a) Flute
    (b) Violin
    (c) Sitar
    (d) Guitar
24. Choose the correct word.
    When a room is tiny, it is .....
    (a) small
    (b) light
    (c) cold
    (d) hot
25. For ..... information, go to the office.
    (Choose the correct option)
    (a) further
    (b) farther
    (c) either
    (d) neither
26. He wanted to buy ..... mangoes.
    (Choose the correct option)
    (a) much
    (b) any
    (c) little
    (d) some
27. Nistha tried to solve the problem but she ..... not.
    (Choose the correct option)
    (a) can
    (b) could
    (c) may
    (d) might
28. He will stay here ..... Monday.
    (Choose the correct option)
    (a) by
    (b) at
    (c) to
    (d) till
29. Oh no! ..... I late for the exam ?
    (a) Am
    (b) Is
    (c) Are
    (d) Isn’t
30. I sat on my front step. I looked across the street.
    (Choose the correct combination of sentences)
    (a) I sat and looked on my front step ad across the street.
    (b) I sat on my front step and looked across the street.
    (c) I sat on my front step to looked across the street.
    (d) I sat and looked on my front step across the street.
31. One who loves one’s country: .....
    (Choose the correct option)
    (a) Revolutionary
    (b) Traitor
    (c) Patriot
    (d) Ambassador
32. You can ..... words in a dictionary.
    (Choose the correct option)
    (a) look up
    (b) look
    (c) look down
    (d) look after
33. To drive home.
    (Choose the correct meaning)
    (a) To find one’s root
    (b) To return to place of rest
    (c) Back to original position
    (d) To emphasize
34. Choose the correct spelling.
    (a) Servent
    (b) Servant
    (c) Sarvent
    (d) sarvant
35. I tried to resolve the complex situation.
    (Identify the adjective)
    (a) tried
    (b) complex
    (c) resolve
    (d) situation
36. Hardly had he left, ..... his brother came.
    (Choose the correct option)
    (a) then
    (b) than
    (c) when
    (d) that
37. We should ..... the plane now.
    (Choose the correct option)
    (a) bored
    (b) board
    (c) boat
    (d) bore
38. Choose the correct synonym of ‘Rectify’.
    (a) To build
    (b) To command
    (c) To destroy
    (d) To correct
39. Choose the correct antonym of ‘Sympathetic’.
    (a) Insensitive
    (b) Thoughtful
    (c) Caring
    (d) Compassionate
40. Your friends ............. for you for an hour.
    (Choose the correct option)
    (a) waits
    (b) waited
    (c) will waiting
    (d) waiting
41. I ..... working all afternoon and have just finished the
    assignment.
    (Choose the correct option)
    (a) have been
    (b) had been
    (c) shall be
    (d) am
42. There is a wall ..... the garden.
    (Choose the correct preposition)
    (a) around
    (b) across
    (c) on
    (d) into
43. They usually spend their holidays in ..... mountains.
    (Choose the correct option)
    (a) a
    (b) an
    (c) the
    (d) no article
44. He made a clean breast of it during the last days of his life.
    (Choose the correct meaning of the underlined phrase)
    (a) fought like a hero
    (b) confessed honestly
    (c) faced bravely
    (d) shaved his breast
45. One who does not believe in the existence of God :
    (Choose the correct meaning)
    (a) Theist
    (b) Heretic
    (c) Atheist
    (d) Fanatic
46. Yesterday I ..... finish my geography project.
    (Choose the correct option)
    (a) must
    (b) mustn’t
    (c) had to
    (d) have to
47. He ..... to Agra tomorrow.
    (Choose the correct option)
    (a) will go
    (b) went
    (c) shall go
    (d) will went
48. I like Chinese food ..... my husband doesn’t like it al all.
    (Choose the correct option)
    (a) so
    (b) but
    (c) because
    (d) and
49. It is very hot. I can’t go out.
    (Choose the best combination of sentences)
    (a) It is very hot, can I go now ?
    (b) It is hot, so I cannot go.
    (c) It is too hot for me to go out.
    (d) Too hot it is, so can’t go out.
50. We ..... a lot of volunteer work.
    (Choose the correct option)
    (a) doing
    (b) do
    (c) does
    (d) are do
51. Choose the correct sentence :
    (a) Let’s go to the church to find some peace.
    (b) Let go to church to find some peace.
    (c) Let’s go to church to find some piece.
    (d) Let’s go to the church to find at peace.
52. Everybody ..... leaving now.
    (Choose the correct option)
    (a) is
    (b) are
    (c) am
    (d) was
53. What type of sentence is this ?
    How Surprising!
    (a) Declarative
    (b) Interrogative
    (c) Exclamatory
    (d) Imperative
54. The country lies ..... those mountains that your can see from
    here.
    (Choose the correct option)
    (a) below
    (b) beyond
    (c) against
    (d) beneath
55. They are proud winners.
    (Choose the adjective)
    (a) Proud
    (b) Are
    (c) They
    (d) Winners
56. Does a mother not love her child ?
    (Choose the correct Assertive Sentence)
    (a) A mother loves her child not.
    (b) A mother loves her child.
    (c) Loves her child a mother.
    (d) Loves her child a mother not.
57. Nobody should ..... on the poor.
    (Choose the correct option)
    (a) look over
    (b) look on
    (c) look at
    (d) look down
58. ..... article he is reading is very interesting.
    (Choose the suitable option)
    (a) A
    (b) An
    (c) The
    (d) no article
59. Use mask as a precaution ..... Corona Virus.
    (Choose the correct option)
    (a) for
    (b) against
    (c) from
    (d) to
60. These days, Ram ..... his homework quite often.
    (Choose the correct option)
    (a) forgotten
    (b) forgot
    (c) forget
    (d) forgets

Instruction : Question from 61 to 100 are based on the prescribed texts:

61. Indian Civilization is .....
    (a) Godless
    (b) based on partiality
    (c) based on matter
    (d) based on belief in God
62. Mahatma Gandhi was not ..... of material progress of the West.
    (a) enamoured
    (b) critical
    (c) pleased
    (d) contemptuous
63. ‘A Pinch of Snuff’ is .....
    (a) a short story
    (b) an essay
    (c) a drama
    (d) a speech
64. If America becomes a great nation, it mustn’t overlook the problems of .....
    (a) Farmers
    (b) Labourers
    (c) Negroes
    (d) Unemployeds
65. Bertrand Russell was a philosopher and a .....
    (a) Geologist
    (b) Chemist
    (c) Botanist
    (d) Mathematician
66. The teacher who caught Seibei playing with gourd .....
    (a) appreciated him
    (b) depreciated him
    (c) awarded him
    (d) punished him
67. In Bangladesh, children are looked after by the .....
    (a) father only
    (b) mother only
    (c) whole family
    (d) maids
68. The editorial policy of a popular daily is controlled by ..... factors.
    (a) three
    (b) two
    (c) four
    (d) five
69. Benjy’s hens were producing an average of ..... a week.
    (a) 300 eggs
    (b) 200 eggs
    (c) 100 eggs
    (d) 400 eggs
70. India was a part of the background of .....
    (a) The doctor’s life
    (b) The wife’s life
    (c) The Kashmiri man’s life
    (d) Pearl S. Buck’s life
71. Natalia is the daughter of .....
    (a) Choobookov
    (b) Chekhov
    (c) Ivan
    (d) Vassilievich
72. ..... is ever present in India.
    (a) Religion
    (b) Fear
    (c) Hatred
    (d) Jealousy
73. Seibei’s mother was ..... with him.
    (a) angry
    (b) happy
    (c) terrified
    (d) sad
74. The ..... of a few women raised in warning cannot be heard over
    the humming and throbbing of our machines.
    (a) singing
    (b) crying
    (c) voices
    (d) sleeping
75. Benjy showed no signs of ..... while driving away his parents.
    (a) normal emotion
    (b) sadness
    (c) anxiety
    (d) fear
76. The redness of the fire appears ..... to the poet.
    (a) nice
    (b) cruel
    (c) comfortable
    (d) acceptable
77. Who composed ‘Song of Myself’ ?
    (a) John Donne
    (b) W. H. Auden
    (c) John Keats
    (d) Walt Whitman
78. ‘Nurse’ in the poem ‘Now the Leaves are Falling Fast’ stands for .....
    (a) a plant
    (b) a fruit
    (c) a tree
    (d) a bird
79. ‘Ode to Autumn’ exhibits the principle of ..... in nature.
    (a) joy
    (b) contentment
    (c) sorrow
    (d) beauty
80. ‘An Epitaph’ deals with a beautiful .....
    (a) girl
    (b) lady
    (c) baby
    (d) puppy
81. ‘The Soldier’ is .....
    (a) an ode
    (b) a sonnet
    (c) an epic
    (d) an elegy
82. Macavity is a ..... cat.
    (a) miserable
    (b) mystery
    (c) appealing
    (d) respectable
83. The term ‘Zoroastrian’ in ‘Fire-Hymn’ stands for .....
    (a) Hindu
    (b) Muslim
    (c) Christian
    (d) Parsi
84. ‘A king in exile’ in the poem ‘Snake’ stands for .....
    (a) the rat
    (b) the elephant
    (c) the snake
    (d) the lion
85. The speaker of ‘My Grandmother’s House’ is proud of .....
    (a) her parent’s house(B) her grandmother’s house
    (c) her uncle’s house(D) her aunt’s house
86. The poet had gone to the water trough on a ..... day.
    (a) hot
    (b) stuffy
    (c) cold
    (d) pleasant
87. Macavity is the bafflement of .....
    (a) Lower yard
    (b) Buscot yard
    (c) Dcot yard
    (d) Scotland yard
88. The theme of the poem ‘An Epitaph’ is .....
    (a) patriotic
    (b) melancholic
    (c) romantic
    (d) mysterious
89. According to W. H. Auden, the ..... has become dumb to see the
    leafless tree.
    (a) hen
    (b) sparrow
    (c) nightingale
    (d) peacock
90. Who wrote ‘The Scholar Gipsy’ ?
    (a) Matthew Arnold
    (b) W. B. yeats
    (c) Robert Bridges
    (d) Thomas Hardy
91. Who wrote ‘Endymion’ ?
    (a) William Wordsworth
    (b) John Keats
    (c) P. B. Shelley
    (d) S. T. Coleridge
92. The 18th century is known as the .....
    (a) Cavalier Age
    (b) Jacobean Age
    (c) Augustan Age
    (d) Romantic Age
93. A major linguistic change in English is .....
    (a) The Great Vowel Shift
    (b) Received Pronunciation
    (c) Language Change
    (d) Vocabulary Shift
94. The Old English Period is characterized by .....
    (a) vacabulory
    (b) mood
    (c) inflection
    (d) gender
95. Goldsmith and Sheridan made contributions to the .....
    (a) Novel
    (b) Non-fiction writing
    (c) Poetry
    (d) English stage
96. Who wrote ‘Huckleberry Finn’ ?
    (a) Herman Melville
    (b) Henry James
    (c) Earnest Hemingway
    (d) Mark Twain
97. The ..... helped in simplifying English.
    (a) Bible
    (b) Quran
    (c) Mahabharata
    (d) Ramayana
98. Who wrote Macbeth and ‘Julius Caesar’ ?
    (a) Johnson
    (b) Goldsmith
    (c) Shakespeare
    (d) Sheridan
99. The word ‘drama’ comes from a ..... word.
    (a) Latin
    (b) Indian
    (c) Scandinavian
    (d) Greek
100.  Who wrote ‘Tughlaq’ ?
      (a) Girish Karnad
      (b) R. N. Tagore
      (c) Toru Dutt
      (d) Aurobindo

## SECTION - B (Descriptive Type Questions)

1. Write an essay on any one of the following in about 150-200 words :-
   (a) My School
   (b) National Integration
   (c) Health is Wealth
   (d) Value of Time
   (e) Plastic Bag should be banned
2. Explain any one of the following:
   (a) This work, as I see it, has two aspects : work on one’s self and work for the society around.
   (b) I have a dream that one day this nation will rise and live out the true meaning of its creed.
   (c) India had always been part of the background of my life, but I had never seen it whole and for myself until now.
   (d) He knew nothing about the stock markets. But he knew everything about a hen.
3. Explain any one of the following:
   (a) At whatever time the deed took place <br>
   MACAVITY WASN’T THERE!
   (b) And when I crumble, who will remember <br>
   This lady of the West Country?
   (c) ..... I who have lost <br>
   My way and beg now at strangers’ doors to <br>
   Receive love, at least in small change?
   (d) I celebrate myself, and sing myself, <br>
   And what I assume, you shall assume.
4. Write an application to your Headmistress asking her for leave for a week to attend your cousin’s marriage.
   [OR]{.or}
   Write a letter to the Editor of a newspaper, explaining to him about the deplorable condition of the roads in your locality.
5. Answer any five of the following in about 40-50 words each.
   (a) What does our civilization depend upon ?
   (b) What are the trials and tribulations in ‘I Have a Dream ?’
   (c) Did language play a role in human development ?
   (d) Why had Sudanese women officials stopped going to international conferences ?
   (e) What makes a man’s power feeble ?
   (f) In what way will the travellers be blessed ?
   (g) What does the poet think about ‘beauty’ ?
   (h) What is meant by the Great Vowel Shift ?
   (i) Who were known as University Wits ?
   (j) What were the major concerns of the early Indian poets writing in English ?
6. Answer any three of the following in about 100-120 words:

   1. Write the summary of any one of the following:-
      (i) Now The Leaves Are Falling Fast
      (ii) Snake
      (iii) My Grandmother’s House
   2. Write the summary of any one of the following:-
      (i) Indian Civilization and Culture
      (ii) A Marriage Proposal
      (iii) The Artist
   3. Write a note on the Middle English.
      [OR]{.or}
      Write a note on English as an International language.
      [OR]{.or}
      Give a brief description of modern age in English literature.
   4. Match the name of the poems given in List-A with their poets in List-B.

      | List A             | List B              |
      | ------------------ | ------------------- |
      | a\) Song of Myself | i) D. H. Lawrence   |
      | b\) Snake          | ii) Rupert Brooke   |
      | c\) Fire-Hymn      | iii) Walt Whitman   |
      | d\) The Soldier    | iv) John Keats      |
      | e\) To Autumn      | v) Keki N. Daruwala |

   5. Translate any five into English:
      (i) मैं सुबह जल्दी उठता हूँ।
      (ii) क्या आप मुझे अपनी कलम दे सकते हैं?
      (iii) मुझे सबका आदर करना चाहिए।
      (iv) आप दोपहर में क्या खाते हैं?
      (v) चलो, घुमने चलते हैं।
      (vi) उसे एक कप कॉफी चाहिए।
      (vii) मैं कल अपने चाचा से मिलने जाऊँगा।
      (viii) मुझे बहुत भूख लगी है।
   6. Match the name of the prose-pieces in List-A with their authors in List-B

      | List A                            | List B                |
      | --------------------------------- | --------------------- |
      | a\)A Child is Born                | i\) Anton Chekhov     |
      | b\)A Marriage Proposal            | ii\) Bertrand Russell |
      | c\)The Artist                     | iii\) H. E. Bates     |
      | d\)Ideas That Have Helped Mankind | iv\) Germaine Greer   |
      | e\)The Earth                      | v\) Shiga Naoya       |

7. Read the passage and answer the questions that follow :
   There are many uses for old items that might otherwise be
   thrown away. Reusing items is the best way to reduce waste. With a
   little time and creativity, you can turn trash into treasures. For example,
   there is quick and easy project that can be done with a can. With the
   help of an adult, remove the top of the can with a can opener carefully
   wash and dry the can. Then draw the shapes on coloured paper with a
   pencil. Use scissors to cut the coloured paper into different shapes.
   Finally decorate the can by pasting the shapes on the outside of the
   can. You may also add buttons, glitter and fabric. The old can is now
   ready for a new life as a stationery holder or a vase for flowers.
   **Questions :**

   (a) What are the four items you need for the project mentioned in the
   passage ?
   (b) Whose help should you take to help you remove the top of the
   can ?
   (c) How can you decorate the can ?
   (d) What are the uses of the old can when the project is complete ?

   [OR]{.or}

   Write a précis of the following passage and give a suitable title :
   Being social animals, human beings have their actions and
   desires bound up with society. In matter of food, clothes, knowledge
   and belief they are interdependent. They use language created by
   others. Without language their mental power would not grow. They are
   superior to beast, because they live in human society. An individual life
   left alone from birth would grow utterly beast like. So human society
   and not individuality guides man’s material and spiritual existence.
